Django is popular among web developers because of its "batteries-included" approach, meaning it comes with
 a lot of built-in tools and functionalities. This allows developers to quickly set up websites and apps without 
 needing many extras. Its built-in features for user management and its ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) system simplify
the process of working with database.



Five companies that use Django and how are:

1.	Instagram - Instagram uses Django to foster web applications. It is the best development framework you can learn.
 Django has simplified it for Instagram engineers to amass a lot of web applications, site pages, and web organizations.

2.	Spotify - The Spotify-API Django app allows users to login to their Spotify account and view their top tracks over 
a specified time range. It also allows users to create a new playlist and add tracks to it using the Spotify API.

3.	Mozilla - The company behind the Firefox browser. They use Django for their developer network and a variety of other 
web services.

4.	Pinterest - Pinterest works as a social network that allows users to “pin” (bookmark) their preferences and interests 
while surfing the web. Also, the Django framework helps Pinterest users subscribe to other users and share their boards.

5.	National Geographic - National Geographic is a popular monthly magazine published by the National Geographic Society. 
Its online version uses a Django-powered content management system. With it, developers can easily 
manage the website's content, from modules and advertisements to individual images.


Would Django be used for the following scenarios:

1.	Web application with multiple users:

Yes, Django has built in authentication system which makes it a great for this application.

2.	Fast deployment with continuous changes:

Yes, Django is designed for scalability with its ORM and DRY principles it is ideal for building rapid growth apps.

3.	Basic application without database access or file operations:

No, Django is not necessary for smaller/ lack of database access applications.

4.	Building an application form scratch without granular control:

Yes, if the creator does not want detailed control and prefers to utilize built-in tools and functions, Django is a
 great choice because it offers many ready-to-use components. However, if the creator desires full control and wants to 
 construct every feature manually, a micro-framework might be a better choice.

5.	Starting a big project with potential roadblocks:

Yes, Django has a lot of support with all of its documentation and third-party packages most problems should have solutions


