Exercise 2.1: Getting Started with Django

Learning Goals

●	Explain MVT architecture and compare it with MVC
●	Summarize Django’s benefits and drawbacks 
●	Install and get started with Django

Reflection Questions

1.	Suppose you’re a web developer in a company and need to decide if you’ll use vanilla (plain) Python for a project, 
or a framework like Django instead. What are the advantages and drawbacks of each?
A) Python:

Pros:

Control: Control every line of code and manipulate the database in whatever way you see fit.
Performance: Without the added functionalities of a framework, the application might be lighter and therefore quicker
 than when using a framework.

Cons:

Development Speed: Building the application could be slower since you'll have to create and manipulate everything manually.
Complexity: Creating features such as authentication or the layout of the database can be time-consuming and increase
 the likelihood of errors or bugs.

B) Django:

Pros:

Rapid Development: Quick development is possible since many features are already built into the framework. 
Given these built-in features, it allows for easy scalability and is potentially easier to maintain due to the extensive 
support and documentation.

Cons:

Learning Curve: Learning Django at first could slow down the development process.
Bulkiness: Being a major framework, it could introduce overhead and therefore possibly slow down the application.	 


2.	In your own words, what is the most significant advantage of Model View Template (MVT) architecture over Model View 
Controller (MVC) architecture?

A)	The most significant advantage of the Model View Template (MVT) architecture, especially in the context of Django, is 
its automation and simplicity. While in the Model View Controller (MVC) pattern, developers often have to manually handle 
data fetching, logic, and presentation, the MVT structure in Django streamlines these processes. This means that developers 
don't have to write extensive code to fetch data from databases or map it to URLs. Instead, they just specify what data they 
want to display, and the framework handles the rest. This not only reduces the amount of code written but also speeds up
 development, making it especially beneficial for faster application development.

3.	Now that you’ve had an introduction to the Django framework, write down three goals you have for yourself 
and your learning process during this Achievement. You can reflect on the following questions if it helps:
●	What do you want to learn about Django? 
●	What do you want to get out of this Achievement? 
●	Where or what do you see yourself working on after you complete this Achievement?

A)	I want to increase the knowledge I already have of Django from the full stack immersion course and gain a better 
understanding of MVT architecture. 

B)	Learn more about apply Django into more real life like scenarios along with providing and app that shows this gain
 of knowledge and skill.

C)	After this achievement I plan on taking some time to sharpen my coding skills to hopefully get a job where
 I can learn and grow as a junior developer.
