Exercise 1.3: Functions and Other Operations in Python
Learning Goals

●	Implement conditional statements in Python to determine program flow
●	Use loops to reduce time and effort in Python programming
●	Write functions to organize Python code

Reflection Questions

1.	In this Exercise, you learned how to use if-elif-else statements to run different tasks based on conditions 
that you define. Now practice that skill by writing a script for a simple travel app using an if-elif-else statement 
for the following situation: 

●	The script should ask the user where they want to travel. 
●	The user’s input should be checked for 3 different travel destinations that you define. 
●	If the user’s input is one of those 3 destinations, the following statement should be 
printed: “Enjoy your stay in ______!”
●	If the user’s input is something other than the defined destinations, the following statement should be 
printed: “Oops, that destination is not currently available.”
	
Write your script here. (Hint: remember what you learned about indents!)


    Destination = input (“where would you like to travel?”)

    Travel_destination = [“Vancouver”, “Kamloops”, “Kelowna”]

    If Destination in Travel_destination:
        print(“Enjoy your stay in {Travel_destination}!”)

    else:
        print(“Oops, that destination is not currently available.”)







2.	Imagine you’re at a job interview for a Python developer role. The interviewer says “Explain logical operators 
in Python”. Draft how you would respond.

A)	The logical operations in python include: “and”, “or” and “not”. These are all conditional statements similar 
to booleans.
“And” = both conditions in would have to return “True” to be true.
“Or” = only one condition must return “True” to be true.
“not” = if condition is true this operator reverses it too false.
 

3.	What are functions in Python? When and why are they useful?

A)	Functions in python are statements that return a specific task. They are used to create a command line that is
 readable and can repeat said task over and over again with determined variables.

4.	In the section for Exercise 1 in this Learning Journal, you were asked in question 3 to set some goals for 
yourself while you complete this course.  In preparation for your next mentor call, make some notes on how you’ve 
progressed towards your goals so far.

A)

1.	Over the duration of the course so far, my basic understanding on python has increased. Its simplicity makes it 
easy for myself to understand and read allowing me to focus more on problem solving and overall enjoyment.

2.	I’ve discovered through examples that python is capable of getting the same output through different structures 
which, makes me more interested in how I can refactor or experiment with my own code.


3.	Transitioning from theory into apply python practically has been very rewarding and I am still excited to learn 
more.
