Exercise 1.4: File Handling in Python

Learning Goals

●	Use files to store and retrieve data in Python

Reflection Questions

1.	Why is file storage important when you’re using Python? What would happen if you didn’t store local files?

A)	File storage is important because once a script is executed the variables/ data are lost and won’t be used again. 

2.	In this Exercise you learned about the pickling process with the pickle.dump() method. What are pickles? In which 
situations would you choose to use pickles and why? 

A)	Pickles are serialized python objects and are great for using with data structures (dictionaries) so they can be 
used again later. They are useful when saving results of a script so, they can be reloaded later in python.

3.	In Python, what function do you use to find out which directory you’re currently in? What if you wanted to change 
your current working directory?

A)	To find which directory you are currently in you would use:

        “os.getcwd()”
	
	
	To change the directory, you would use:

		“os.chdir(‘path to the directory’)”




4.	Imagine you’re working on a Python script and are worried there may be an error in a block of code. How would you 
approach the situation to prevent the entire script from terminating due to an error?

A)	To prevent the entire script from being terminated using: ‘try’, ‘except ‘ and ‘finally’ stops to catch errors 
prevent the script from crashing.


5.	You’re now more than halfway through Achievement 1! Take a moment to reflect on your learning in the course so far.
 How is it going? What’s something you’re proud of so far? Is there something you’re struggling with? What do you need
  more practice with? Feel free to use these notes to guide your next mentor call. 

A)	Really enjoying python, I understand why it is one of the most popular languages to learn. I am proud that this 
language is the most intuitive for me so far but I should work on slowing down to prevent typos in my code along with 
being better at navigating only using my keyboard. Just spending more time writing code will lead me to being a better
programmer.
