Exercise 1.7: Finalizing Your Python Program
Learning Goals

●	Interact with a database using an object-relational mapper
●	Build your final command-line Recipe application


Reflection Questions

1.	What is an Object Relational Mapper and what are the advantages of using one?

A)	Object relational manager is a tool that converts contents and structure of a database into classes and object (OOP).
 The advantages of ORM are instead of writing in SQL you can interact with it using python along with code reusability and 
 simple maintainability.


2.	By this point, you’ve finished creating your Recipe app. How did it go? What’s something in the app that you did well with? If you were to start over, what’s something about your app that you would change or improve?

A)	I really enjoyed this project; I feel like I’ve learned a lot. I think I did a good job with the edit recipes function 
allowing users to choose whether to over write or add ingredients. The only thing I would change is try making each function
 its own separate module for organization. 


3.	Imagine you’re at a job interview. You’re asked what experience you have creating an app using Python. 
Taking your work for this Achievement as an example, draft how you would respond to this question.

A)	I’ve developed a command-line recipe application in Python, integrated with SQL-based database. Throughout
 this project, I used object relational mapper (ORM) to implement CRUD operations. This experience deepened my understanding
  of Python’s technicalities and increased my skills in building scalable maintainable code.


4.	You’ve finished Achievement 1! Before moving on to Achievement 2, take a moment to reflect on your learning in the course
 so far: 
a.	What went well during this Achievement? 
b.	What’s something you’re proud of? 
c.	What was the most challenging aspect of this Achievement? 
d.	Did this Achievement meet your expectations? Did it give you the confidence to start working with your new Python skills?
e.	What’s something you want to keep in mind to help you do your best in Achievement 2?

A)	My code worked out well for the most part, id dint run into any large errors or have to go on a bug chase.


B)	I’m proud of writing decent python code without having to look up how to-do everything.


C)	Using the terminal, I usually find the most difficult when inputting a large amount of code hoping I don’t have any 
syntax errors.

D)	I am extremely happy with this achievement and am looking forward to learning more python and creating project 
even after I am finished this course.


E)	Slow down and take my time, I am new to the language and need to triple check my code and practice the skills 
that have been shown
