Exercise 1.1: Getting Started with Python 
Learning Goals

●	Summarize the uses and benefits of Python for web development
●	Prepare your developer environment for programming with Python

Reflection Questions

1.	In your own words, what is the difference between frontend and backend web development? If you were hired to work on backend programming for a web application, what kinds of operations would you be working on?

A)	The front end is the visual or client side of a web application of some kind while the backend is the 
sever side working with data flows, APIs and databases. Being hired as a back-end developer, I would be working on 
creating or maintaining databases, server configurations or just general backend logic for apps.

2.	Imagine you’re working as a full-stack developer in the near future. Your team is asking for your advice 
on whether to use JavaScript or Python for a project, and you think Python would be the better choice. 
How would you explain the similarities and differences between the two languages to your team? Drawing from what 
you learned in this Exercise, what reasons would you give to convince your team that Python is the better option? 
(Hint: refer to the Exercise section “The Benefits of Developing with Python”)

A)	Both JavaScript and Python are high-level scripting languages with dynamic typing. What makes Python a better 
choice is its number of open-source and proprietary packages along with one of the strongest community support groups. 
But the best part of python is its readability.

3.	Now that you’ve had an introduction to Python, write down 3 goals you have for yourself and you’re learning 
during this Achievement. You can reflect on the following questions if it helps you. What do you want to learn about 
Python? What do you want to get out of this Achievement? Where or what do you see yourself working on after you 
complete this Achievement?

A)	1. Be able to problem solve basic problems without stack overflow
2. Be able to read and understand basic or complex python functions
3. I want to gain the basics skills of python so I can continue to build on them after this achievement. 

